---
layout: post
title:  "Here We Go"
date:   2017-05-30 22:54:26 -0400
categories:
---

First things first. I've been thinking about writing to your future selves for several years. I have several reasons for this, none of which are important right now. What is important is this: you matter to me. The amazing people that you grow up to be will be shaped in part by your mom and me, but we are raising you so that your unique personalities will be intact and shine through. So without further introduction, I want to drop some wisdom on you that took me too long to learn.

In life, there will be people that you disagree with and who disagree with you. A lot of them. Probably most, but thankfully not all. They will be all around you, and when you encounter them you will have to make a choice for each and every one of them. You can choose to marginalize them in your mind, to write them off as unimportant because you don't see eye to eye. (Sometimes you will have to let people go when they aren't dealing with you sincerely.) You can also choose to fight against them bitterly and attempt to tear them down with arguments or harsh words or other destructive means. Or you can choose another way altogether.

You can choose to recognize their intrinsic worth. You can value them as humans. You can listen to their words, along with the things behind that they are not saying. You can be swayed by the merit of their arguments, or you can reject what they are saying. Somehow you can still love them and value them, and they might recognize it. If they do, your words will carry more weight. The "somehow" part isn't magic, but we'll get to that later. It's important to recognize that their souls are just as valuable as yours and maybe more broken. Love them, and because you choose to love them also choose to empathize with them. Put your empathy to work: act in compassion. Be as kind in dealing with them as you are in dealing with your closest friends. It's hard but not impossible. I hope that when you read this you will recognize how I have modeled this for you as an example.

That's all for now.

Love, \\
Dad
